+++
title = "Typological tendencies in verse and their cognitive grounding [PhD dissertation]"
date = "2018-05-03"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["V. deCastro-Arrazola"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["5"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "LOT"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = """This dissertation is about verse, some of its recurrent features, and cognitive aspects which can explain their prevalence. Verse includes a range of verbal phenomena, most typically songs and poems, but also nursery rhymes, religious chants or demonstration slogans. Compared to everyday speech, all these forms show additional layers of structure, like a regular alternation of accented syllables, a fixed melody, or a systematic number of syllables per utterance. \n\n Every linguistic community in the world engages in verse, but certain features seem suspiciously widespread. On the one hand, I have developed computational tools in order to assess systematically how widespread individual verse features are. On the other hand, I have conducted behavioural experiments to investigate to which extent these widespread features may stem from properties of human cognition. Using these two approaches, the thesis examines three aspects of verse. \n\n The **first part** deals with constituent structure in verse and how it can emerge in the process of iterative learning. The **second part** measures final strictness in several languages, and proposes that it is a consequence of reduced attention at the beginning of lines. The **third part** develops a method to describe how linguistic and musical features are aligned in songs, and how to test the intuitions of native speakers experimentally."""
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = "img/ogia.jpg"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "pdf/2018_diss.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

<!--
More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
-->
